//sesion 29
we are going to practice in the condicional tens 
there are only three words you have to learn to talk in the condicional tent
would 
could and
should
la l es mudathe silent l in the word
becouse inable you to talk about what ocurrira podria ocurrir y deberia ocurrir en el futrua
helping verbs or auxiliar verbs
lets find our friend in mexico
rigth an the great day
you would say tu diriras
i would say yo dirira
we would say nostros diriramos
they would say ellos diriran
just use eat pronunciar ? the word wuould to the main verb
i wouldn't say yo no diria
i wouldn't say the watter is hot today in boston it is quite cold

i could have yo tendria
you would have to tendria que to tell me
we would have to cook
we wouldn't have to cook
they wouldn't have to study
i would think yo pensaria
we would eat paeya nosotros comeriamos
you would walk to the tren station
they would be taller

i would like me gustaria
i would like to vitit colombia
i wolud love to see sout america me encantaria

could helping verb
just put could
i cuould speak english
you could speak english
we could be friend
they cuold be roun equivacados
can you help me podria ayudarme 
do you give telefone number please
could you call me tomorrow
could you tell me your name
could you tell what time it is, i could

should deberias
you shuould call your mother
we should breach or tief      to breack lavarse los dientes
you shuuld go to de doctor
i should live now irme
you should try to visit you uncle
they should know i am mexican
do you should know follow
we should be carefull deberiamos tener cuidado
they should be carefull 
he shuoul arrive tomorrow deberia llegar mañana
the keys should on the table
it shouldn't be very difucult 
do should be proud deberias estar orgullosa
must (deber) you must drive carefully debes manejar
i must remember my sisters birthday
i could help whith you englis could you help me with my espanish
he would go 
they would not go they would'n go
we should eat something deberiamos comer algo
we could eat fast food podriamos comer comida chatarra
you shouldm't eat fast food
i would like to visit you 
i would love to hear you me encantaria escucharte

Session 30
today, we are going to practice phrasal verbs no se puede traducir literalmente verbos con preposiciones con frases
to get obtener conseguir phrasal verb get along (llevarse bien) i get alone well witn my boos
they are good friends they get along well
i agree with estar de acuerdo i agree with cecilia
to be about to estar a punto de hacer i was about to call you estuve a punto de llamar
i will be back to night yo regreso she want be back until tomorrow
to be out off quedarse sin we are out off coffe nos quedamos sin cafe
to be over the concert was over at 10 el concierto se termino
to be up every day i am up at 6 oclock estar levantado 
i come acrros in old friend in fb encontrar
i come acros a good recipit yesterday encontre una buena reseta
i run acros encontrar algo por casualida
come on vamos date prisa 
"anotherone"?
drop by dejar caer 
can you drop by my office at 3 oclock? puedes  pasar por aqui visitar mi oficina 
my friend drop by my house yesterday
come on y drop by se pareces
my plan to visit canada fail true fracaso
figure out decifrar o entender
i can not figure out how to splain phrasal verbs, 
find out means descubrir o averiguar
i find out i like spanish
did you find out when the bus lives sale el autobus
she find out the bus lives at seven
give up means rendirse
i give up i cantń learn english
give up dejar de i give up smoking 
hang on esperar hang on cecilia i want you to wait for my
holl on sinonimo de esperar
hand in entregar i a going i a going to hand in my homework
The teacher told us to hand in to hour exit
can you let the cat in
how let in the fly dejar entrar
look out cecilia the door is open you are let in flys zorry hang on one minute sorry hang on one minute in way close the door in a estar atento ten cuidado
they make fun off bryans asent burlarse de alguien they make fun out of bryan's accent
pick on meterse con dont pick on cecilia she is my friend
stay up he is stay up on the mind night hasta la media noche
talk into presuadir a good sells men can talk you into buy anyway
talk out off i tryed to talk him out off get not married her disuadir
i used up the coffe so we need to buy more consumi utilice todo de algo he usado todo el cafe asi que nosotros tenemos que comprar more
ok everybody
pick up recoger pick up the telphone

examen numero 1
i havei am 27 years old
i have angry
i have tired
i hate the winter
i am happy 
beter than
they think
complicate
interesting
interested
you are welcome
i a error
to stay
found
funy
obsecionado?
sometimes
do you speak spanish
do you need help
do you have children hijos
i am enamorado
impresion
guilty
angry 
i hope
we sell comprar
she sell
i have tired of flying
do you like learning inglish
he hate swimming

three is snow in my garden
i stydy ingleis with my friend
i want to buy so new shose
did you enjoy the movie
whta is your favorite type of music
i am a going to visiti new your
how much dose the book cost
this hotel is very quite 
do they seld de old car
are you worry writte? about global gorment calentamiento global?

false
true
true
true

see you again soon te veo de nuevo pronto
ocupado busy
but while you are watting
escritor writer
poema
in us MANY CHILDREN  believe that santa cons to ther house on the nigth before crhimas
in america many children believe that santa claus comes to ther house on the night before christmas
muchos niños creen que santa entra en sus casas en la noche buena
santa bring presents, bring gives
put he comes at night when everyone sleeping
so that no one ever see santa claus, well except for the speaker in this poem the night before chrismast nadie nunca ve a santa exexpto por el escritor in este poema
the poem discribes surprice meeting with santa
original title poem a visit from san nicolas
underwear ropa interior
both ambos

sesion 31
today we are going to the shopping mall hoy vamo de compras al centro comercial
we are going to buy some clothes
in the procces we are going to learn some new vocabulary abaout colthes and shopping 
but more import we are goint to learn about survibing in a big american shopping mall 
holiday sell compras son locas
a good friend in mexico
are you ready to go
shooping mall centro comercial
go shoopping ir de compro
i think so yes 
would you like to go shooping we me  at the mall
you need some new clotes
 clothes ropa
 you need some new clouding
 here we are inside the shooping mall
 hey is a very popular store you my live is call sahara
 sahara, yes the are sahra store in many us city
 mens clothes or clothing
 womans clthes or clothing
do you mind the dificult go the women setion first
no i dont need some
no i dont realy a new jakect
no i dont need a busnne 
no i dont need any dresses
no i dont need falda
no i dont need sueters
no i dont eny shose ider
jens no se dice jin 
pants pantalones
i need osme new pants
shorts pantalones cortos
look up this jeans i like
to try on probarse
can i to try on this jeans
yew you can try it in the change room
change room probador o vestuario
mirror espejo
snowwhite and the seven
mirror mirror who is the feedtes
fairest mas justa? mas hermosa?
i ll be righ back ya regreso
you look good te vez bien
you look prety
this pants look good an me
this pants flattering te favorecen
what do you think how this jeans look
be look ok
their a tait me apreta
the are to big
the are spensive son caros
yes the are very spencive
i gas not supongo que no
less expensive 
shipper mas barato
i like this jeans i would take than me los llevo
you need anytielse
really i would like nayting bluses
i will be righ back
no tengo prisa? i not at ...
i want a top to go with this jeans quiero una blusa que vaya con estos jeans
fabric tela
coton algodon
lana wool
seda silk
leather cuero
well but do you think 
i like a black cecilia it looks nice
do you like hte color
looks go at you
we have nevers practice colors
you have new jean and news blus  you need enything else
well do you remenber into ingles setion when i lended you some money to bye groceries comestibles 
i lended you 63 dollars do you remenber
i remembered now .
i forgot to pay you back
is alot money
but do you main helping me pay for this clothes
are you ready  to go to the chekout, yes i would like to buy some more clothes but i think anymore for today
i dont any shose
i dontany boots eader no quiero botas
cinturon?
creadit card tarjeta de credito
i will pay for a jean an your blubs with my credit card
you have to pay for everithing i just 
how much is it ?
let see 
that will be 103.64 $
tax impuesto
thanks bryan for pay fo many clothes i realy apresiri apreciarte
you are welcome the next time we go shopping you can buy me something
do you need corbatas
maybe you need shart camisa
dont worry we can buy clothes for me some other time now lets get out here 
ok lets go
yes is a maising we  any desaster ??
excusme sr can you please give me your bag i forgote quitar the segurity etiqueta
anyway i think you leanred new vocabulay
see you again soon

examen 2
excuse me
party
sometimes
there are
i have to
i am bored
he is boring
nice
i ask me
you ready
i am confused
the book is confuse
the spay?????
i am goin to
nevermind
huge
where are you heade???
quite
qualite
to sing
aparently it aperas por lo visto
i surpriced
acoring to??
we are talk about of
cort corte??
youp??
i am encore you??
to cath up
enjoy your stay

i am became hungry
do you like fancy clothes?
he is very sensitive
please be sensible
i was embarasment
you have the compromise
the tlevision is not working
you seen tired
has agoing??
acored to her ????

true
true
false
true
true??

dising classic

session 32
hellow everybody how are you my name is bryab i am from us
today we are going to practice the pronutation  regular past tents verbs
after works goin to lisen to part the novela
franz kafka metamorfocis
a big insecto
i bring i brogth

regular past tents verbs siempre finalizan con ed
jump saltar en pasado jumped 
hay tres maneras de pronunciar ed 
cuando termina en sonido vibrado, ejemplo call calldo corto voice consonan
to stady en pasado studied studid, to plan planear to planed

now second sound ed se pronuncia como un t en sonido sordo
to walk past walked to waet, i talk  en pasado i taet
she washed -> washet

cuando termina en t o d se pronuncia ed como eedd
wanted -> wanteedd the wanted to go to new your
needed -> i needeeeddd 
decided -> dicide 
wait -> waiteeedd yesterday we waited a long time for to ingles sesion 32

recived recibir 
closed 
repeteedd
include includeedd incluir
practice practicet practicar 

i was working hardly adaptivo en advervio añadiendo ly
she speak loudly
i am goin to read a short part metamorfosis
here it is than the beagin of the inglish translation of metamorfosis

insecto gigante

session 33
hi there has a going
we are gonna celebrated to one year aniversario to ingles of this program  vamos a celebrar
i would like to thank everyone for lisening to the show 
speaking to colombia hablando de colombia i go travel to bogota
i havent never been to south america 
at thta time en aquella epoca
they tell me that the spanish spoken in bogota is very clear and pure i hope it is true
the weather el clime in bogota is cold
but i dont care no me importa
you remenber i tolk about winter here in bostos
i am sure that the wether in bogota is better than the wether my city  bostos
while i am in bogota i gonna relax 
i goin to visit some museans
and season friends 
i would to run in the simo bolivar park
did you remenber in sesion we told about foreing language obsession
i stell obsess we learning spanis i think i would have this it sicks ???
i am still obsess we learning spanish, I think I would have this desees for long time????? tendre esta enfermedad por largo tiempo
now it is time for thats ingles 
i would like to talk with you more about pronutation
importan pronutation
as you know in spanish enfasis can change the meaning about verb
háblo habló 
présent verbo presént is noun 
récord noun an record is verb
rule is you pronunce the noun but enfasis in first silaba
and the verb but enfasis the second silaba 
well thats english
everyone news we have a new president barack obama is the 44 president at us
michle is layer michel give speech pronuncio un discuros
so many tantos o tantas
so much tanto tanto
i am so tired
this book is so interesting
to endure aguantar soportar
save ahorrar i save my money 
screw apretar el cinturon los tornillos ser austeros ahorar
achievement logro do you know this word
that was michel obama speaking democrati nacional convetion on agust 26 2008
 
sesion 34
i live in colombia (new the) city boston
today in to ingles about sprint way 
fun and sun
so lets practice some of the vocabulary and gramar you would here in the selection ?
how have you been
i have been fine
always apresure your help cecilia
sorry about for delay
to rest descansa
i need a rest
how were you trip did you like colombia
i have a wonderfull trip
its not a place to rest
is a place a long? energy
bogota is very intencive city
take a break tomarse un descanso
many people take a coffe break un descanso para tomar un cafe
breakfast desayuno
spring break 
to break romper, extropear
i break the window yo rompo la ventana
she break the silents ella rompe el silencio
broken roto 
to break puede ser frenar hit the breaks
stickes pegatinas
i break for bird o uniconios
college universidad pequeña
i systen higd education is complicated
undergradued pregrado
some for example
degree
she did her undegraduate studis in harvar
she got her batleidegre for havar
graduate school posgrado escuela de postgrados
us we say asignatura principal mayor
enginerin my friend mayor enginery
civil engineri 
mechanical engineri
i stady law
quimistri quimica
bussnies managment
economics economicas
information tecnology
no all at en absoluto
hit the books i am going to hit the books toning
take a break with your friend -> do you want hang out pasar el rato
hang on espera
hang on one minute in weekend
resaca - hangover resaca i drink to much last night
do you to pary much ir de fiesta (fiestar) como verbo
something the pary some hard the get out of control fuera de control
under control todo bajo control
i under control
go wild volverser loco alocado i plain to go wild on spring break
jhon went wild in florida
unruly revoltoso no obedece las reglas for child ṕara niños
rebilius rebelde
thank for talking a break in study
every year in the month on march hundru thoson of american students live the cold the college or university campuses insert fun in sun??
to rest descansar
i want go vacation
take a break tomarce un descanso i going take a break
asignatura prinsipal megon? she is megon an electrical enginera
hang out pasar el rato do you like hang out with ther friends
hang om espera hang on a minute
hangover resaca
she was out control
dont worry everiting is undercontrol todo bajo control

sesion 35 palablar de poder
¿how is going? como vas
your logic logica
we need to master some key words and fraces nesecitamos dominar algunas palabras y frases claves
i could power word podria dar poder a la palabra
nothing magic could about we are going to learn today
lets find ther friend cecilia in mexico
so we can practice some 
so we can practice some on this powerful words and phrases
hi i fine thanks
ok thats great
toda in to ingles subordinaring conjuntions
only practica the most importan subordinaring conjuntions
aunque although
a menos que unless 
i will not come unless you commit
while mientras 
she fell slept while i was talking 
apesar de despite
despite be tired i could sleep
en lugar de 
instead off
i decided styde spanihs instead of
i decided to study spanish instead of french
or rather than
para que so that
i am learning english so that i can travel
ya que -> since puede ser tambien desde que 
asi even ii aunque  or even do
even if i have to study a lot i want to learn english
you doing great
so that de modo que 
so that you can read more about this subject
now i want to talk about some other key words and frases

this a call in english "conjuntic adverb"
no ob
i love to travel, however i have only travel twice
however -> no obstante
hoever i prefer stay at home
ademas b
she is beatiful and besides is intelligen
moreover -> ademas
furthermore -> ademas
in adition
por consiguiente therefore
i think therefore i am
me too ->yo tambien
de hecho -> in fact
i no like the winter in fact i hater
en contraste con, a diferencia de -> a diferencia de in contrast
brayan is tall in in contrast i am short
this another one
inglish is easy to learn in contrast is hard
english is most dificult
i will see you next time

however sin embargo never the last
moreover ademas
therefore por lo tanto
in contrast en contraste a diferencia
unlees a menos que
while mientras
despite a pesar de
sinse ya que
sinse desde que

sesion 36
i am from the us the cyti of boston to be exacty para ser exacto
we are going to continus talking about power words
subordinate conjuntion
we started destin in sesion we takl about subornidate conjuntion
this a words the we use to be logical into talk about cause in effect
more word and frases
i am glad to see you again 
i am glad to be her
i am so sorry lo siento mucho
thats to bad que pena
thats a pity eso es una pena

suena bien -> sound good
porsupuesto offcource -> offcourse no porsupuesto que no
con respecto a -> with respect to
en relacion con -> regarding
tiene que ver con -> has to do with
my love of english has to do with my decide to communicate
has got to do with
i like that song bryan
i agree estoy deacuerdo
i disagree no estoy deacuerdo
i cant stand no puedo soportar my boss we always desagree
pay atention presta atencion
great job gran trabajo
by the away por cierto 
by the way cecilia i hope you dont
no a lot no para nada execto my university at close
useful util
es que -> i dont think so is because
is because i love to learn new things
yo que tu si you fuera tu , if i was you
if i were you bryan following the rules
you are right tienes razon
cecilia you are always right
i just learn sonething new
we just arrived acabamos de llegar
i just returned
i have just returned se puede usar el pass participe
i have just learn something new
they have just talked with us or
they just spoke with us
well cecilida
see you again soon
of corse
pay atention prestar atencion
has to do with tiene que ver con
has got to do with tiene que ver con
by the way
not a lot para nada
i am sorry
it because es que its because i was visit
if i were you yo que tu
estas de acuer do you agreed, yes i agreed
your rigth tienes razon
i am glad that hearing

examen 3
lets do the exam
i hurt my back
look me in the eyes
te importa?? do you mind
strong green
i can seguir caminando do you can to follow walking?
exciting emocionante
i am exciting estoy emocionado
i me di cuenta de ??
oldert mas viejo
do you have prove sushi
i you right tienes razon you are right
trsite? sad
i love go -> i would love go me encantaria ir 
advice concejo con s
aconsejar? advise con z 
sujerir? suggest
sugerencia? suggestion
dangerous peligroso
mejorar inprove

look me in the eye in say that??
i was just polin your leg ??
neder do i  nunca lo hago
my brother is waching tv
what do you mean?
promise prometer

your english is amazing asombroso
i appreciate your help 
the trip lasted 7 days el viaje duro 7 dias

sesion 37 advance topic
perfect tense
hi cecilia how are you
i am great thanks
i am glad that hearing
i think your englihs is almost perfect
perfecionar to perfect enfasis the second silab in the verb
perfecto perfect enfasis en la primera silaba
we had takled 
the had takled
she has talked
i have eaten
he has meet el ha conocido
we had seem
i had not seem no nos hemos visto
the had not travel
he has not arrived
i have not lived in boston
had you stadied english?
no, i had not studied english
are you tired yet? no, no a lot i actually like learning grammar
i have laways readed books
they have never visited Spain
lo mismo con just
i have only written one letter
we have rarely lisented salsa
they have opended the door
i had already finish the homework
well, i believe you had learned how do you the perfect tense
se usa cuando el tiempo no es especifico
i had readed that books two times. pero no i had reade that books yesterday
i had studied spanish for 3 years
bryan had never stayed in english
well thank a lot 
i am glad we had finally done
i just hope
take care

i had finish yo he terminado
the have heard
have you arrived early
they have readed 3 books 
she has never travel nunca ha viajado
we have always eaten late
we had talked
he had opended the door
we had wanted to stop

sesion 38
today in to ingles i going to reading story
is the story  romeo and julia 
is one the most popular plays by willian shespearek
prose

sesion 39
today in tu ingles sesion 39 is time  for another episodie of ingles reach in famous
here we go let's listen to song english of the reaching on famous
who was that quien fue
take for granted dar por supuesto o sentado
i dont take any object for granted
i love them dearly los amo mucho
she was talking about her insequerity in the audition in about how she thoght a diferent girl with get the part of hem
she was talking about her insecurity in the audition, in about how she thought a different girl with get the part of Hermagony.
i remenber be debasteded
my dream its over mi sueño se acabo also its finish 
to make matters worse para colmo de desgracias.

two hundry thoson of 
they could have been saved
the information that you and i would have resived
i know who is yo se quien es
they can realte to my music
the music goes beyond words la musica supera las palabras
i don't dream of fame or play guitar on be staying in front of thousand of people delante de
i dream so changue
thats enough for me 
childhod infancia -> habit sing my childhod???
take for granted dar por sentado
its over se acabo or its finish
to make matters worse
i could had said something aboaut ingles but i didnt
you would had said somenting about my spanish but you dinnt
in front of en frente de 
thats enough for me
thakns for listening

examen 4
lets do it exams
date apointem
enterview entrevista
the best el mejor
the worse el peor
alcnzar??
advantage
mrs miss señora y señores
whaching machine secadora
second floor
showar ducha take showar
i am cain do visit??
en lugar de ??
do you help me
pedir prestado??
groucerys receta
mopjado??
aqui mismo overhere??
letter 
me los llevo??

i am glad me alegra
thats to bead?? 
i loking for were do it??
have a sit ??
i use to live in london
couring a buy your car 
i sure find the good reciped ??
the doors is overthere??
dont give up you can fine get out

session 40 

we are going to practice  sometthing very baasic but very important
demostrative adjetives
can you help us with the session cecilia?
sure i will be happi help you this is an importan subject
this, that, these, those
this-> cuidado con la pronunciacion dis corto
this land is your land esta tierra es tu tierra
i dont think i have ever hearding
this song esa cancion
this song is more popular than that song
that girl
let me playing a let bit for you
you gona lose that girl
this that in the other thing hablamos de todo 
we talked about this that in the other thing
we already about these and those
these days estos dias
in these days is importan to speak english
use the internet
in these days almost everyone has facebook
these womens estas mujeres
these mens 
these bots estas botas
those dogs esos perros
those cats esas gatas
those houses
those trees 
those building esos edificios
i am prefer this to those
i dont like this chocolates i like those cakes 
those dancing days
well tnanks for help us with this that in the other thing today
i love that
this uncredible

this bots are made for walking
that girl you goin to lose that girl
this land is your land
this book
that house
these dogs
those cats
that food
this building
those women
those men

this, those, these, those, that, this, those, these
can be confuse but this is a inportan part of speaking english fluency 

Sesion 41
we are going to talk about the word to do and the word to make
in english everything is more complicated and confused
today i want to help you eliminate this doubt
we are going to pratice some comment exprecions the use do and make
ok, i think is time to find a friend cecilia in mexico so we can practice how to say hacer in english
hello cecilia how are you, hello i am fine thank and you, fine thank, are you ready the talk about do and make, yes i am, 
i have always wanted know word. when use do and when use make
i am no sure bryan , can you give me some examples, 

do the dishies -> lavar los platos
what are you doing -> que haces.
mom what are you makking -> i am making lunch
do accion o activida y make para creación
what do you do? a que se dedica usted
homework tareas- > the students do the homework.
can you do me a favor for me.
make love -> hace el amor
make the bed -> preparar la cama -> i make my bed every mosrning after i get out.
can i make you a coffe - > puedo prepararte un cafe, in english you make food you not do food.
a lot sometimes people say do you want to do lunch sometimes puede suceder
sometimes we no used nether "do" and "make" for say "hacer"
hacer las maletas - suitcase - to pack the suitcase - empacar la maleta
when we talked the weather. we not use nether "do" and "make"
example: it is suny -> hace sol, it is cold ->hace frio
make a call -> hacer una llamada you make telphone calls
that makes me happy -< eso me hace feliz
we often talk about emotions with the word make, things that can make happy and things that can make sad
cecilia you make my day -> cuando alguien te hace feliz
make a decision-> i need to make a decision about my next to vacation, i terrible at making big decision
make a suggestion - > can i make a suggestion -> they make several suggestions -> hacer una sugerencia
make a noisy -> my car is making a funny noisy my neibort make a lot of noisy
make money -> weell, than sounds wear "make money" ->ganar dinero-> i agreat its sound strange but that we to say she makes a lot of money you dont   make much money teachin english
make a friends -> hacer amigos she make a friends easyly, i make a new friend yesterday , make enemies
make sure - > asegurarse -> i want to make sure that you are confortable. she wanted to make sure de su respuesta
cometer un error -> make a mistake
make an effort -> esforzarse -> if you make an affort you can learn how to use do and make corretly
decidirce -> to dicide , but I hope you give me an answer, but use the word do
tener sentido -> make sense
i have to make do without cecilia ->arreglarselas
make friend a lot of friends in university
do the dishes lavar los platos
make money ganar dinero she make a lot of money sail a candy
make sure -< make sure you practice english everyday
do a favor -> hacer un favor
make a mistake
make a decition i need to make a decition about my new apartment
make an effort -> hacer un esfuerzo
make a sugestion
make sense - >tener sentido

sesion 42
today in tu ingles session 42
we talk about prepsitions
palabra en español "en" en ingles in on at
at the moment, in the mood, on propuest???
today we are going to talk about the rules for using this english prepocition is correctly
and we are goin to study some an the preposition or phrase that use in on or at
enserio -> seriusly , to get the most at the this sesion.
ok, time the talk about preposition. let see at cecilia our friend in mexico can help us again .
hey cecilia cecilia how are you. hi i fine thank, how are you. i doing well thank, seriuly, yes seriuly i am fine.  
rules:
1 depende de lo que estas hablando tiempo y locacion.
i am at home-> estoy en casa
i am at the bank.
she is at the party
usamos at para hablar si he is at the airport en un lugar 
he is at the airport in madrid ubicaciones en paises y ciudades
he lives in germany
he is in the kitchen -> lugar en la casa con in dentro de algo
she is in the badroom
she is in the livingroom of our house in boston 
he is in office at home
well , we talk a little be about it and talk
when do you use "on " to talk about location -> para una cosa en una superficie on
the books is on the shelf el libro esta en el estante
the books on the floor, on the table, on the wall
the keys are on the table in the kitchen.
the cat is on sofa in the office in england
my town isnt on the map -> cuando hablas de ubicacion ficticia.
ok, let's talk now about prepositions that have to do in time
usamos in para periodos largos de tiempo años o meses
on para hablar de peridos intermedios como dias
at para periodos corts at mindnight at seven oclok
i was born in june 
the wedding is in april.
our aniversity is in march
we are going to new in the summer
in -> para habla de las estaciones
in the summer in the winter in the spring in the fall (autumn otorño) por que las hojas se caen
my syster was born in 2001, i went to spain in 2006
usamos on en una fecha en especifica she was born on the 5 of may
chrismats is on the 25 of december,
i have to go to the doctor on mondey
on saturday i want to go to the cinema el sabado quiero ir al cinema
in the morning i want to run in the morning, i have a meeting in the afterno para hablar de la mañana y la tarde
y para hablar de la noche at night, i always sleep at night
i have a meeting in the afterhnon at 6 oclok
i want to eat lunch at 2 in the afternon
my boss always arrives at 10 in the morning
my boss alwaus arreves at 1o at night or in the evening
i always call my mother on the weekend

prepocitional phrase
at the moment, at the moment i am busy not in this moment
at least -> i eat at least tree hamburger
at the most -> i can wait 20 minutes at the most
enseguida -> at ones come here at ones.
at the lates -> he has to be here at 3 at the lates
at times -> at times i am lazy
estas aburrida. no no a lot. at times a get bored learning english but at the moment i not bored a lot
at the most i only have a few more examples one to show you i help us listen to list a few more
on time -> en la hora prevista the train arrived on time el tren llego a tiempo or you can use on schedule
on purpose
i am on vacation estoy de vacaciones in england i am on holiday
she is in love with him ->
in pain -> tener dolor sufrir dolor -> i always in pain after i went to the dentisc
in short -> en resumen -> in short ->
they are in love
in public -> en publico she did not like speaking english in public
in reality -> en realidada -> in reality her english is very good
in secret -> secretly -> en secreto
in the mood -> tener ganas estar de humor para -> i am in the mood for ice cream -> i am in a bad mood estoy de mal humor, i am a good mood
i am a good mood about this session, me too bryan, we talk about a lot the phrases for use in, on and at
yes we talked about some preposition and phrases that use in, on and at.
of course it's not the possible to talk about all the rules or all the phrases in one session but i think we talk about the most important things
now your to
at home
in the kitchen
on the floor 
in england
she was born in july
in the spring
she came on monday 
at 6:30
on propuse
in short
i in the mood eat ice cream
at the lates  muy tarde
at the most como maximo at the most i eat pizza one for week
at less por lo menos you should practice your english prepocition at less 12 hours for day
don't worry i didn't mean it seriously 

sesion 43
today in tu ingles we are going to talk false friends,
the words sound or look the same in English and Spanish but have a different meanings
genial -> significa simpatico o amistoso
we are going to need help of genial friend in mexico cecilia. happy new year cecilia  , how are you doing?. happy new your to you too. bryan, im fine thanks i glad that hearing

actually i am a doctor, -> en realidad soy medico
currently -> actualmente
i cant find the exit -> no puedo encontrar la salida
success -> exito
my report is on the carpet -> mi reporte es sobre la alfombre
folder -> carpeta
he is not very sensible -> el no es muy sensato
sensitive -> sensible
i want to buy some new rope -> quiero comprar una cuerda nueva
clothes -> ropa
are you tired, no i am not tired a lot i am ready for the 
here the question number
i dont know how to rest -> no se descansar.
? -> restar
i lose the receipt -> perdi el recibo.
recipe -> receta
i quit wearing jeans -> deje de usar jeans
quitar -> to take off the shirt -> to remove.
there are preservates in my food -> hay conservadores en mi comida
you are an a roll
the casualties happened by chance -> las bajas pasaron por casualidad.
chance -> casualidad
the second round this time i going to read sentence in spanish and you have to choice the best translation in english
what is the best translation?
ella es muy sensible -> she i very sensitive.
me gusta comer sopa -> i like to eat soup
ella tiene un collar de perlas -> she has a pearl necklace
el puso su pie en el pastel de boda -> he put his foot in the wedding cake
la pelicula el engaño era una deseccion -> the movie the deception the was a deseccion

hard, duro -> durable duradero
letter carta -> card tarjeta
funy gracioso -> gracious cortez gentil
molestar to badger -> molest 
sano healthy -> sane cuerdo

she is embarasments ella esta avergonzada, he is a bigote intolerante.
he is bizzaro -> el es raro, i like champions me gustas los campeones.
I hope the new year is full of joy

exam 5 
mirror espejo
ill be righ back ya regreso
hang on espera
brown marron
to rest descansar
major asignatura principal
although aunque
while mientras
despite a pesar de
besides, in addition, furthermore ademas
in fact de hecho.
i m glad
has to do with tiene que ver con.
pay attention prestar atencion
por cierto by the way
we have talked
i have not seen it no he visto esto
i have always read book
thet have never visited boston
they had apened the door

jumped 
cooked 
wanted
called
study
walked
talked
wached
decided
needed
?
closed
included
practiced
?
listened
learned
?
inproud

yes
yes?
false
yes
false

sesion 44
today in tu ingles we talk about idioms (modismos) 
no pegue ojo en toda la noche. -> i didnt sleep wink
there are many idiomati exrprecion
in state i have choicen some idioms the you hear a lot in work or bussnies
lets find cecilia in practime some englihs i doing great thanks
crash course in idiomatic expressions
i going to abrochar el cinturon
it's up to you -> i think i hear the idiom-> is you decition tu decides
put the foot in my mout ->  i so funny and dificult -> decir algo erroneo
try the feet -> for example  -> dar largas al asunto
Grind to a holt -> parar se en seco 
keep a low profile -> mantener un perfil bajo ->to keep a lot profile means avoid atentions
second guess -> you are always second guess my ideas ->cuestionando.
its done deal -> cosa segura cosa hecha inebitable
learn something the hard way -> aprender por experiencia
pick up steam - aumentar sail a realy pick up steam
reap in the money -> acuñar dinero 
pull strings -> he pull strings to get me the job
red tape -> if you want the visa is a lot of red tape - muchos tramites mucha burocracia
the politicion prommes to cut the red tape .
get in that head of somenthing exprecions -> understander??
tie off -> to be busy
dont get my wrong ->  no me mal interpretes
down the drain -> all my work when down the drink when my computing crash -> desperdiciar perderse 
a foot in the door -> you have oportuniti  to do somenthing 
pull you are weight -> in your job you have to pull you are weight  also. ok you have to do your part you have to contribute. for as to be successful
run around in circles -> dar vueltas en circulos i was running raound in circles all day
snow under -> i was snow under afternon. i am snowed under when that happen you have -> hasta el cuello
up in runnig -> the news store is up in runnig -> algo esta funcionando.
do in about face -> when you change plan 
an the fence -> no comprometerce -> he still an the fence about get it merry, she still an the fence about studied medicine.
cacth 22 -> novela we used this idoms for describe a no win situation, people say is a catch 22 situation. 
dead wood -> las personas en una organizacion que no contribuyen, in companing somethings up le to remove dead mood? remueven 
no brainer ->  pan comido -> compare to learn spanish english is a no brainer, i dont agreed learning english idioms isn exactly is no brainer
sharp cookie -> is inteligen no es facil de engañar-> you are sharp cookie
ahead of the pack -> more progress of the resto -> you are ahead of the pack means you are more avance, 
dont have a clue -> no tengo idea. means i not idea
train of thought -> hilo de pensamientos secuencia de pensamientos -> you make me lose my train of thought
the big picture -> is the type situations -> ti-enes que considerar la situacion -> 
one track mind -> una mente o pensamiento de via unica -> its a person who has track of thought never changes
big let down -> disappointment gran deseccion bit let downs come from big hopes
crunch the numbers -> bueno con los numeros -> 
learning curve -> proceso de aprendizaje -> 
the trick of the tride -> los trucos del oficion
pay off -> arriesgarse -> learning english will pay off -> valdra la pena
yes men -> adulador

session 45 aprender a ver peliculas en ingles
i want you to try this technique
you read twice and you listen twice

session 46
leafy -> frondoso leafy mustache .
so let's find their friend cecilia in mexico
i am felling great
perfectly -> perfectamente
los advervios terminan en ly
english and spanish frequently have thing in common
normally -> normalmente 
dryly-> secamente 
wise -> wisly
adver is word that described a verb or ussualy how an accion that is occuring
how does cecilia speak -> she speak correctly -> correctly is an adverb of manner it discribe how cecilia speak
other example -> how does bryan teach? he teach specianly
thank you cecilia you are gentle.
some advers dont describer vers they describe adjetives example
simply ridiculous
suben el enfacis very really
learning advers is very dificult
learning advers can be really easy

can off or sofl off use for hablandar habla example:
sofl off i am sofl off hungry.

advervio de lugar
here - i live here
there - i live there

adverbio de tiempo
yesterday -> i went to the bank yersterday
tommorroy -> 
today 
soon -> pronto
later -> mas tarde 
Exprecion soon or later -> 

adverbio de frecuencia
always -> you always know the answer
sometimes -> sometimes i dont.
ussualy -> usualmente
never ->i never eat me (nunca como carne), i would never speak spanish fluently neversay never -> nada es imposible.
rare -> casi nunca . she rare makes mistakes,  i rare go to the supermarket
seldon -> raramente
he frecuently visit us.
hace una semana - a week ago

adverbio de tiempo
how long have you study english - > i have studed english for fifteen years. solo 

demacioado -> last night i eat to much, i work to much this week (trabaje demaciados). i work a lot (trabaje mucho)
last night i drunk a lot of beer, tome mucha cerveza, acttualy no  that is incorret, i didtn drink a lot beer last nigh, i mean the your answer correctly 
the box is too heavy. -> adaptivos long heavy, borring
i hope this session has not be too long, no no a lot bryan it is been very useful
it help me a lot, thats great. you always help us a lot cecilia thanks again for everithing
ok bryan you are welcome.  dont forget take envairoment. dont worry i never forget take envairoment.

correctly correctame you anwser the quetion correctly
aqui here i hope you can her
alli there i realy want go there
now now is a good time to study adver
yesterday 
later tarde 
never say never 
rare seldon
sometimes i forget how say aveces in englis
i go to spain always in the summer incorret
i always go to spain in the summer correcto
i went to chile a year ago
i learn a lot this sesion 
i study too much today i love to study english too much.

sesion 47
do you like music i am sure 
i am sure that you do, everyone like to listen to music. and you play the instrument? do you play the guitar the piano or do you like to sing, 
do you have a good ear. i hope so because you need a good ear to learn lenguages. today on Tu Ingles session 47 we are goin to do some serious ear traning.

reconocer sonidos extraños del ingles
let me ask you, do you have perfect pitch i dont have perfect pitch.
peach melocoton (pich) -> pitch (piech) tono
kiss (kies) -> keys (Kiiz)
for many spanish speakers its dificult to hear the diferents between this words
its because in spanish you dont have a short ai sound 'ie'
fonemas en ingles son 44 aprender a reconocer
we are going to practice listening to words that sound very similar i want you to learn to hear this 
differences when you can hear and recognize the differences it our helping pronunciation.
bit -> biet  , beat biit
chips -> chieps , cheap chiip barato
sin -> sien, si
slip -> sliep, sleep sliip
chip barco shiep , sheep oveja shiip
think pensar `think` -> siink lavadero ->zinc metal
fashion moda  -> fasten abrochar fason
try tratar -> dry seco
trip viaje triep ->drop gota dreap 
she ella -> see ver
tear lagrima tiir -> tear rasgar tear
chains cadenas cheins -> change cambio cheing cambiar
face cara feis ->  phase fase feiz
are you get it tired from practicing this sounds as you pitch it is closer to be inperfect 
comedia comedy comedi - committed  cometer comiti
corazon heart "hart" - hard  duro "hard"
much muech much  -  match mach fosforo o igualar
worth wuerth  - worse peor 
sat sentarse en pasado - sad triste 
man hombre mean - Men meen hombres
woman woman  - women womeen mujeres

sesion 48
have you seen the movie Tup Gun with Tom Cruz in the movie Tom Cruz is the us air forces pilot 
i feel the need for speed, to speak and understand english at top speed you need to master the use a contactrions
i'm , you'ar, 
i want to train your ear to reconize some coment but dificult contractions their could informal contractions.
hi bryan i done well thank how have you been

Hi Bryan, I'm do you well, thanks, how have you been?. i be ok, i feel the need for speed. me too, 
i wanna be able to understand people when speak quickly , ¿there i heard you say Wanna?. ¿there I said that? yes used WANNA, is that bad, no is ok, 
its just a informal contraction. some people could this informal contraction relax pronuntation. no se debe usar contraciones en las cosas importantes. 
example wheeryafrom, whateryadoing, whoeryavisit.  whatdyacanheard, couldya, wouldya. usan mucho el sonido a la vocal neutra example: i have to -> i hafta. 
i out (iora) to remenber this. a lot of money -> alora money, full off -> fulla, 
a couple of times -> acoupla times. out off -> oura get oura here. of course no all informal contraction used as sound we dont always change the word you to ya. 
did you eat yet -> did youeya. did you see them -> did you seeam. them se puede comtraer en "em" example : get them -> getem , do them doem, what you think that is crazy?

wanna you hear something crazy? sure, i have a recording a men who is one the faster english speaker 
in the world is name is Jhon and he is from city New York.
 sesion 49

is your boss a dictator, i mean, is your boss fussy? you know the word dictator can sound the word "to dictate". into dictate" is two meanings to be a tyrant or to say something for some else to rigth down. 
por ejemplo dictar a una secretaria. i want to practice dictation its a very importan skill when are you learning english. 
so lets find than friend cecilia in mexico and practice some dictation. hi cecilia how are you. hello i am fine thank how are you doing. 
i doing great thank you. how is the weather in mexico today, its  

its weird, its about 30 degree today, 30 is a well day. in fact sometimes even neither speakers have trouble hearing the difference between number 15 and 50, 
if you are not sure.
sorry what did you say, can you repeat that please. sorry, what is that ?"0ne five or five zero ". dont be shy. english numbers can be confusing. 
fifteen hundred (en vez de one thouson five hundred), fourteen and twenty five, is shorter and faster. i live nine o one (en ingles se remplaza el cero por la o) i live in apartment four o one. 
do you remember mr Bats?. from sesion 23 when you got a job interview with mr Bats who is the manager at the company called very sweet. yes he is very demanding
he is very demanding, he also like to dictate things to you everyday he dictate a list of thing he wants you to do. that's ok i like numbers  if don't understand i can ask you

so are you ready to go to work at Very Sweet corporation? yes i am let's go , you are in your office at Very Sweet Corporation. it is morning, you are working at your computer .  
the phone rings, it is Mr Bats. good morning cecilia, how are you  today - good morning Mr Bots ,i am fine thank how are you, well to tell you the true i am not very happy , 
could you please come to my office?. ok Mr BaTs i am coming. you hang the phone you get append a pen and paper then you walk to Mr Bats office's the door is open. 
Mr Bats see you and he say the following: come in Cecilia shut the door and have a sit. Cecilia do you remember last week when
when asked you to call a methanol supplier, yes i remember is there something round. Cecilia,then i want you to call my dentist i want to schedule and appointment for me (as). you write down in your notepad, get me appointment on thursday or friday the four three in afternoon, do not making appointment for on monday or tuesday, is that clear?. call the dentist soon is posible. then i want you pick up sandwich for me in sandwich shop down street . go to the sandwich shopping  
cecilia I distinctly remember tell you to order 80000  gallons of methanol but as a player only sent 18000 gallons,Mr Bats sorry,  
they sent  18000?. thats right Cecilia, they sent 18000 instead of  80000 i want you call  then that away i want you to order the other 62000 gallons of methanol, 
tell them wih need a soon as posible (asp). you make a note in your notepad.  now i want you to sending email  to Suppercase they are biggest customer 
i want you tell Supercase that we to reduce price  for Very Sweet to thirty hundred dollars, is that one thousand three hundred dollars?. 
but, they have to place the order before young fourteen. afther that , they should  price of go up to one thousand four hundried and fifty, 
send the email as soon posible (asp). and another thing i want you to fast this contrat
 and another thing i want you to fax this contrat (asp) their fax number is 3031094200. right, be sure the send the fax soon as posible, then i want you to call  my dentis i want to schedule and apoint me 
 
then i want you to call my dentist i want to schedule and appointment for me (as). you write down in your notepad, 
get me appointment on thursday or friday the four three in afternoon, 
do not making appointment for on monday or tuesday, is that clear?. call the dentist soon is posible. 
then i want you pick up sandwich for me in sandwich shop down street . go to the sandwich shopping  202 main street not do want 
go to the sandwich shopping 202 main street. i want a ham sandwich with chips and 

and well you after i would like you pick up my laundry, i have two socks and five shorts in the laundry on seventh avenue in park street. 
i need them soon as possible, and no mistakes this time, i dont toleration
we don't tolerate errors here in Very Sweet Corporation. he is really demanding. I hope i runtown everything correctly.
i am mind travel, i forgot it's my wife birthdays today. its your wife birhtdays. how you  like be to get some flowers for her at the flowers shop? 
yes that its a good idea Cecilia, i go get some flowers when i go, yes get your something nice, somenthing with pink and blue flowers but not yellow she hate yellow and make sure ther no lilacs she is alergy. go to the flowers on central street they have the best prices dont spen more then 13 dollars ok, mrs Bats are you sure one three or three zero, well ok 30 dollars.

session 50
hello how are you.
thats not joke, it's a serious achievement.

but i don't feel like be serious today, 
in instead i want to celebrate fifty session by talent joke. 
do you remember session fourteen? do you remember when i told you, there are i am not good at talent jokes. 
well i am not going to give up. today we are going to practice  some jokes. 
Cecilia are you there, we need your help. hi bryan how are you, i doing fine thanks. congratulation too you to bryan and too our listeners.
ok cecilia are you ready too tell some jokes. yes i am bryan. can i go first, of course you can. 
VOCABULARIO
enterrar -> to bury "to be bury-> he was bury in the cementery".
chiste 1: why can a men who alive in the US not be bury in mexico. it because he is stay alive haha. i get it - good joke cecilia - actualy it was bad joke. 
VOCABULARIO:
round -> redondo, violent -> violento.
chiste 2 : what is round and realy violent?. i dont know bryan a fat dog? a vicious circle. 
chiste 3: what has four legs and one arm?, a happy pitbul. thats terrible =(.

VOCABULARIO
cannibal-> cannibal.
chiste 4: there are two cannibals having dinner together, one cannibal says to the other "I hate my mother in law" so the other says "try the potatoes".
chiste 5: two cannibals a having dinner and there are eating a clown, and what does one cannibals say to the other
"this taste funny to you?".
chiste 6: why was the number 6 afraid off number seven?, because seven ate nine and ten.

## 51
we are going to exercise your ear for english, but that's nothing only thing. we are going exercise brain.
brain teaser "to teaser -> acertijos".
today we are going to learn some new vocabulary and idiomatic expresions.
well we test on brain and test your hability to listen very cously.

but we need the help our cecilia in mexico, i think can you doing. ok lets get start it. hi cecilia are there, how are you today - hello i am doing very well thank you.
and how are you - wonderful thank you.
so we are going to listen to some brain teasers today.
Great. 
i just realized something.
really? what do you realized.
now are you ready.
yeah lets go.
all right let's begin with the easy one.
cecilia do you remember in session forty nine we talked about


numbers,
eighteen twelve->1812.
war -> guerra.
when was the war of 1812?. let me think bryan R / obviously it was in 1812.
sometimes brain teasers are tricky.
vocabulario:
horse -> caballo
napoleon ->  was the famous french inproud.
ok so, tell me bryan: what color was napoleon's white horse?, 
that is very tricky question, i think the napoleon's white horse was the same color as Georgs Washinton's white horse or Santiago's white horse. lets try something a let off less at ideas.
VOCABULARIO
to weight -> pesar.
stone ->piedra
feather -> pluma.
which weight more a pound stones or a pound feathers. R/ they weigth the same.
but i have other brain teaser about way. 
Vocabulario:
i am one point eigh metters tall.
clerk -> empleado independiente.
there is a clerk in a fruit store and the clerk is one  point eigh metters tall, so what does he weight. R/ he weigth fruits.
Vocabulario:
crow ->cuervo
farmer -> granjero
fence -> valla.
ok here is the brain teaser:
there are fifteen crows, fifteen sitting  in a fence in there is a farmer with the gun. the farmer has a gun and he shoot. he shoot two of them crows, how many crows are leave?. R/ zero crows of left the flew away when they heard the gun.

Brain teaser: you now some months have 30 days and some months have 31 days, ok so how many have 28 days. R/ all them.
now I one to the listen very carefully to the next brain teaser, it is can't tricky.
brain teaser: in electric train in this train is traveling south. and the wind is coming from the west, 
so my question is: ¿if the train is traveling south and the wind is from the west, in what direction is the smoke blowin?. 
R/ the train not blowin smoke because is a electric train.

there are three fat people in only one umbrella, but miracuosly nobody got wet. how is possible. 
R/ because it's not raining.

ok now i have a very difficult brain teaser, and i mean difficult ready.
VOCABULARIO
rosa ->rose
tulip -> tulip
daisy -> margarita.
here will go. I have some flowers in my, i want you to tell me, how many flowers i have in my home. i going to give you three clues, all of the flowers are rose except for two and all of the flowers are tulips except for two and all of the flowers are daisys except for two. so tell me how many flowers do i have in my home. i realy have no idea. R/ 3 flowers.
VOCABULARIO
mas largo -> longer.
mas corto -> shorter.
i am thinking about a five letter word, this word is an unussualy when you add two letters to it the word became shorter. do you now what word it is? haha no i dont. R/ short -> shorter.
i have easy one for you: how many birthdays thats the average man have? R / the people only one birthday.
brain teaser: can you tell me three consecutive day without using the words(monday ... sunday). its imposible. are you sure?. how about yesterday, today and tomorrow. ok thats a good. 
brain teaser: a father and the son are driving in the car but something bad happen, they have an accident. both the father and the son have serius injuries

two ambulances come, one ambulance takes the father one hospital in the other ambulance takes the son at different hospital.
well the boy needs an operation, so they taking operating room and they put boy in the operating table

and then the surgeon comes to the operating room and then the surgeon say 
wait i can't do the operation this is my son
how is the surgeon? R:/ the mother.

blame to english-> echar la culpa.

brain teaser:
it's about a very bad lawyer, he did something very bad, he is sentenced to death and the judge ofert the lawyer the choice of three rooms.
the first room is full and crazy assassins with guns, the second room is full 

the second room is full many rattlesnakes, the three room is full lions, lions to have not eat anything for three years.
tell me, which room should the lawyer choice, which room is safest.
R/ the room with the lions because it haven't eatting for three years they are probably death. 


session 52:
hi everybody, how is a going. what is the most important word in the english language, there is a lot of controversy about the  subject,
maybe it is the word "God" or probably is "Love".
Today in "Tu Ingles" i am going to explain why such it little word is so importan. before we beagin today.
well lets find our friend cecilia in mexico in get do it. 
hello cecilia how are you today, hi bryan - i am doing well thanks, glad the hear it. 

why is so importan to learn the word it, it is just the pronoun
why is it so important to learn the word it, it is just the pronoun. I think it not important than pronouns.
and you are right pronouns are not usually very important, in fact in spanish you usually omit the pronouns. 
and other reason why it is the most important word in english, there are many expresions that use "it".
example: "es que"  -> it because.
i tired its because i didn't sleep well last night. 
it figures that i didn't sleep last night. i drink to much cup coffe today

it figures that i didn't sleep last night. i drank too much coffee during the day.
have you heard the expression "it takes two to tango" -> para hacer algo las personas deben colaborar.
it take all types.
heards another  reason why it is the most important word in english. 
what time is it? - its is two in the afternoom.
its 10 at night, 

its me "cuando contestas el telfono soy yo".
who is it? - its me.

weather "en el clima":
it is hot.
it is raining.
it is cold.
it is snowing?.
it is windi?
it is suny?.

it is get it late?
do you like to study english? i like it a lot. - i dont like it.

it is aplesure to tolk with you. 
it was found with explain it is such importan word

session 53:
we are going to talk about future tense.
i will do it. -> auxiliar verbo "will".
today in part one of "tu ingles" session 53, we'll practice how to use "will" with our friend Cecilia in mexico. 
we will also practice some other ways to talk about of future. using expresions as "goin to" then 
then In part two its time another session of ¿what do you say? cecilia with the help of mr Popt using some of the concept we are going to learn today
about talking about the future but firts hear us the greeting of received from "Tu ingles" listener named Luisa.
ok let's find our friend cecilia in mexico for practice talking about the future. hello cecilia how are you been

hi bryan, i have been fine thanks and you?, i'm to glad hear it. I´doing great thank you.
will "señaliza el futuro". example:
i will go, she will find her bag, they will learn rapidly, i will not go tomorrow, i wont call my mother today. i wont do it  but i will call to her tomorrow, i promes mom.
ok, so "wont" is strange contraction but can you getter verbs with "wont" is easy however sometimes hearing the future tense can be dificult will almost always use "will" in the contraction the form. example:
en lugar de decir i will, i'll be in a minute, right away. no confundir con aisle "pasillo", i'll be in the next aisle.  or "rueda" wheel with "will".
going to example: you are going to learn a lot of. you will learn a lot of.
Ok, very good i want to show you one more thing about the future and then I believe you have a metting with mr Pip. "may and might" "podria" it may rain tomorrow, it might rain tomorrow. there is one more exprecion that i will like  teaching you today. example: i am about to live (estoy a punto) , we are about study, they were about to it.
you are going back to work at "very sweet corporation" like you didn't, yeah, i remember my boss Mr Bo have many projects for me, yes. with first meet mr Bo in sesion 23 and the sesion 49. 
Mr Bo give you a lot of projects with numbers


we first meet mr Bats in session 23 and 49. Mr Bats give you a lot of projects involve numbers, well today mr Bats need your help again, this time he need your help with worse. 

so you are in your office at "Very Sweet " and the phone rings it is mr Bats he sound very far away  and he sounds like he is in eagerness. 

Mr Botts: 
are you a creative person?, yes i like to think i am creative. ok i need your help, sure mr Bats, 
but where are you? i´m in china cecilia. i´m in Wohan to be exact, 
you are very far away mr Bots, what are you doing in China. i am meeting with Chin Chon. 
are you hear Chin Chon? well you are going to hear a lot of about Chin Chon in the furture about i am about to sign big contract with them, thats great Mr Bots. 
congratulation! thank you Cecilia . but is not a done deal, 

is we are looking starting next month that "Ching chong" is going to used "Very Sweet" and sugar less for your cookies, is big opportunity for this company.
that's wonderful mr Botts, Cecilia the China is a fortune cookies market is huge .but i a need your help 
Sure how can i help you, well are you love fortune cookies right?. ok then you now then a fortune cookies and done little pick paper menssage.
i need you to write some fortune cookie messages, Me mr Bats ? why Me?, because i makie a promise to Chin chon.
the problem is i dont very creative, i need some good messages ASAP. i am meeting with the president of "Cinchon" in one hour, 
that is soon mr Bots, but i am ready, ok,and i am ready too go ahead. give me good ideas.

I am ready for your first message. on mr Bryan one minute i am thinking. i have one, ready?.
"you have nice shoes". what mr Bryan i didn't understand you. What do you think Cecilia?, do you liked? can I make a suggestion , of course Cecilia i am always open to suggestion.
Well usually fortune cookies talk about the future, somenthig positive of the future, umm yes you alright, how about "you will have nice shoes in the future". its better mr Bryan but i think we need something more positive, how about?. 
you shoes will touch soil of many country. i liked cecilia, good one.

i have another one of mine. "you are not blind". Mr Bryan again the message should be about the future, ouh right Cecilia . 
"you will never go blind". Mr Bryan that's not very positive. how about  "Tonight you wil be blind with pasion",
umm I am not sure Cecilia. Maybe Chim Chom will think that is to much. well, Ok we have to finish ASAP. hears another one of mine. 
"you will resive  lots email", Mr Bryan .Can i suggest the a change, how about. "you about to resive an importan email", 
umm ok, thats good is very good. you'll hear mine next one. you are going to work hard forever. 
Mr bryan that is ok, but i think it would to better to say. "your hard work will carry you far"

yeah , that's a good one, ok hear another one mine, "you will a lot of money". Mr bryan it sound very materialistic.
how about "you will make the world a more piece of place". well, i'll dont want  Chin Chon to think i am a hippie. 
i need one more massage something profaund. how about "you will live in a house make of gold". umm i dont know Mr Bryan 
i think thing it will more profound to say "you will always be shrouded by true friends " . i glad to hear Mr Bryan.
we are good team. ok well i have to go the time for my metting with Chin Chon, wish me luck. good luck Mr bryan, i am sure success you with Chin Chon 


we are going to have a pronunciation workshop, we are going to practice pronunciation by listening to fables from the Esopo, 
it's very avance session. is usual our friend in mexico Cecilia is going to help us to day we are going also to have the help to english listeners 

hi fine, i doing great. i'm glad to hear it. are you ready to listen some the fables. there is always an moral to the history. 
in this fables have been translated into many language, included english. 
in all of the fables included talking animals just like the talking chikents in your joke in session fifty. 
lets begin with the fabule read by Marta Sanchez she is from Terraza a town of barcelona spain. Marta is going to read The lion and the farmer 

welcome to "tu ingles" normally on "Tu ingles" we exercise your ear for english. today we are going to review English adverbs, pronunciation, informal contractions, dictation of numbers and brain teasers. there are six sesions. of course you can listen to exercise without writing your answer. ok lets do the exam are you ready. i wish success you.

part 1: adverbs.
corretly, recently, here, there, now, yesterday, sooner or latter. never, sometimes, i went to Chile one year ago.

part 2:

beat, cheap, these,sleep, dry, she,hurt,women,man.

part 3:
i have to go.
what are you doing?.
could you help me?.
do you eat yet? 
i going to go now. 

part 4:
15, 40,13,1200,506,1902,80,14000,316,92.

part 5: the word it.
it is beatiful,
it is hot,
it is 2 at night,
it is me,
it was a pleasure to see you.

part 6: jokes and brain teasers.


sesion 55
can i tell you a secret, we are hear to learn english, right?. 
but ask you now. i am also learning spanish and lay many people 
how a learning spanish there is one think really. my problem is this a subjunctive mood, 
i imagin you have not. if a native speaker you dont have to think about the subjunctive mood .
 you use all the times without think about it. i am use this a subjuntive mood, but in english we dont use subjuntive mood with frequenly,
  i think understand but why you afraid of subjentive mood in spanish?. well thats another one good question, 
  i will try explain in spanish. ok, i haven´t afraid of subjentive mood in english, lets go back to the expression "yo quiero que me quieras" -> 
  i want you to want me. "quiero que estes feliz " i want you to be happy". "quiero que me ayudes". i want you to help me. 
"quiero que ellos vengan". 
i want them to come, i wan her to leave. they want us to eat now.

i love you, i want you "quiere decir te deseo ". but away Cecilia, 
have you hear the beatles song called "i want you" is from the album "brown" 
let's listen to the. yes bryan, after hear that song it is obvius that you dont want to say 
"i want you" do your granmother. ok wait wait. right we just practice how to say the expression "querer" 
and we learned that in english we dont use is subjentive mood to say that. now i will like to practice another 
common expression that uses subjentive mood in spanish but not in english. "ellos nesecitan que lleguemos a tiempo".
they need us to arrive on time. "nesecito que ella compre una pizza". I need her to buy a pizza. lets talk about some 
expressions that you use the subjentive mood in english. "insisto que vengas". i insist that you come. i recoment that he go to the doctor. 
i propues that she change his shoices. i suggest that they come whith us.

as i said early, there is one verb in english it is a little different 
in the subjunctive mood that verb is "To be". i ask that him be silent, 
their are silent, i ask that their be silent. very good now  so far we have 
talking about the use the subjuntive mood in the present tense. affortunaly 
if you know how to use the subjuntive mood in the present you also you know how to use in the past, 
i propuse that she change her shoes. i propused that she change her shoes. i recoment that he go the doctor. 
i recomended that he go to the doctor. i wanted you to want me. they need us to go. 
they needed us to go. i would like to finish this sesion with translation about very 
important expression in spanish "yo que tu, si fuera tu". if i were you, i wouldn´t be afraid of the subjuntive mood in spanish either. 
dont worry about me. i want do you know. i think the subjuntive mood in english is very interesting.
 really i needed you to help me today and you did a great job, thank but i suggest that you to one more things in sesion. 
 do you want me to give more examples of the subjuntive mood. no, i recomment that you reviews some of these things us learned today. 
 i want you want me. i want her to come. i need you help me. she need us to arrive on time. i recomment that you arrive early. 
 the recomment that we be ready. i want you to be happy, if I were you, i will not go.

 sesion 56

 this is the program for people who want to learning english. 
 what did he say. what do you said. tell me. 
 this are things you must learn to ask and to answer in english. 
 what did she tell you. what did you say them. we are going to learn how to ask and answer questions. 
 "estilo indirecto" reported speech.  lets find our friend Cecilia in mexico. hello Cecilia how have you been. 
 Hello Bryan i have been great thank. how have you been. i am glad hear it. i have been well, also thank. 
 i want to begin today with the word that is very simple but importan "Decir" there are two way -> to say and to tell. 
 ok Cecilia tell me what is the differents. could you tell us. to tell "cuando hay un pronombre presisar el sujeto". 
 to say "no usa pronombre". example: what did you tell her. i didnt tell her anything. she said her name. she says "ses" her name.
she says her name to me. she tells me her name. the words To talk and to Speak. what is the differents . 
well questions Cecilia , many people are sure about that "son casi iguales". talk para referir a conversacion. 
speak "en situaciones mas formales o las lenguas". she talks a lot. can i to speak you latter. i speak in spanish. 
could you speak more slowly. i told you, you say, you told me. she says. he told me his name. he said the true. 
she told us her address. they always talk a lot, she speaks english. well in "Tu ingles " 
we always try to teach you to speak english corretly but i also believe is important to prepar you for the english you will hear on the street. 
jargon. uso de la palabra like como "decir" o la palabra go. 

i think you are ready now for next part in this session. it's time to go to work again for you boss Mr Bart. 
do you remember mr Bart of course from a previous sessions?. of course Mr Bart is manager at "very sweet coorporation".
i had been working for Mr Bart as his assitent. thats rigth. on today mr Bart really need your assistens. 
what does mr Bart need me to do. but there is a problem. what is the problem. 
well mr Oviedo does not speak english and as you know Mr Barts does not speak spanish, soo. 
i am going to be there for interpret do you think can you do it. i dont know but i will try.
ok so you are at "Very sweet corporation " in Mr Bart's office you are sitting at the big wooden table,
middle on the table is the speaking phone. mr Bart looks very nervous.well,
cecilia is ten oclock. time the call Sr Oviedo, i will digit the number now.
ok Mr Bart good luck. like Nora Oviedo please. i mean ok. Cecilia what did she want.she asking for your name.}}

is Bart from "Very Sweet corporation" . what did she say cecilia she say she will connect you to Sr Oviedo right way. hello , 
how are you today. i sorry not speak english. she will like thats speaking little lauder, she cant hear very well. can you hear me now?. 
yes i can hear you. she said that she doesn´t have much  time today, i will get to the point. i will like you consider using "Very Sweet" in all  coffes. 
she said that it is very atractive propusal, she said that they all ready have a suplier.


and they are very very happy. well done Cecilia. but i have spoken with our director and he said the we can offer very special price. 
she said that she had also spoken with their director and he talked she that they will need a contract for two years. i think thats possible. 
We are very exciting about be parnerts with succesfull company like Jorge Vargas, she said that they about to develop to presence in US  . 
it will be helpfull to have as a parnert a companny US such as Very. we will be very happy to helpfull your expantion in the US. 

























